{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs24
\b Weekly Project Progress Report \u38? Deployment Preparation\b0\par
\par
\b 1) Project Overview (Brief)\b0\par
\b Project Title:\b0 Smart City Issue Reporting System\par
\b Short Description:\b0 A full-stack web platform where citizens report city issues with photos and map location, while municipal admins review, prioritize, assign departments, track duplicates, and update report status with notifications.\par
\b Current Completion Percentage (Estimate):\b0 80%\par
\par
\b 2) Team Contributions (Solo Project)\b0\par
\b Name:\b0 Zahraa Fouad Sharifeh\par
\b Tasks Completed This Week:\b0\par
\bullet\tab Implemented citizen notification filters (All / Unread / Status).\par
\bullet\tab Standardized user-friendly status labels across citizen and admin UIs.\par
\bullet\tab Added admin status notes and displayed them in citizen notifications/report details.\par
\bullet\tab Added map pin picker in citizen report creation (click/drag marker).\par
\bullet\tab Added admin map views in reports list and report detail pages.\par
\bullet\tab Extended admin filters (status, category, date range, district, department, priority).\par
\bullet\tab Added priority field in report schema and integrated it in admin update/list UI.\par
\bullet\tab Added Department model, APIs, and assignment UI.\par
\bullet\tab Implemented duplicate detection heuristic and duplicate moderation actions.\par
\bullet\tab Added analytics endpoint and admin analytics dashboard.\par
\bullet\tab Added email notifications on status transitions (text + HTML template + preview mode).\par
\bullet\tab Updated documentation (README, docs/API.md, env config notes).\par
\b Tasks Currently In Progress:\b0\par
\bullet\tab Final deployment configuration and production validation.\par
\bullet\tab Final QA pass and end-to-end testing on deployed environment.\par
\b Specific Contribution to the Project:\b0 Full-stack architecture, backend APIs, frontend UX/features, analytics, notifications, and deployment preparation completed individually.\par
\par
\b 3) Work Completed This Week\b0\par
\bullet\tab Implemented citizen notifications improvements: filters by unread and status, unread badge, and read-state actions.\par
\bullet\tab Unified status wording in UI: PENDING -> Submitted, IN_PROGRESS -> In Progress, etc.\par
\bullet\tab Implemented status-note flow from admin updates to citizen notification/report display.\par
\bullet\tab Added geospatial improvements: map pin picker and coordinate validation in report creation.\par
\bullet\tab Added admin geospatial visibility: read-only report maps in list/detail pages.\par
\bullet\tab Extended admin backend filters: status, category, dateFrom/dateTo, districtId, priority, departmentId.\par
\bullet\tab Added priority management: schema enum + admin edit + list display/filter support.\par
\bullet\tab Added department assignment: Department model + admin APIs + admin UI controls.\par
\bullet\tab Implemented duplicate handling: candidate detection by distance/time/category + mark duplicate/ignore actions.\par
\bullet\tab Added analytics: aggregation endpoint + dashboard (KPIs, breakdowns, trend).\par
\bullet\tab Added email notifications: SMTP status-change emails + preview mode.\par
\bullet\tab Completed lint/build/smoke validations after major features.\par
\par
\b 4) Demonstration (Short Videos)\b0\par
\b Video 1: Citizen Flow\b0\par
\bullet\tab Register/Login\par
\bullet\tab Create report with map pin and photo\par
\b Video 2: Admin Flow\b0\par
\bullet\tab Reports list with advanced filters\par
\bullet\tab Open detail, change status/priority/department\par
\b Video Links:\b0\par
\bullet\tab Video 1: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1acmvD9Q-x_2a4av0sdlU8RaLi3h93N_x/view?usp=sharing\par
\bullet\tab Video 2: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hpDZytDzdBgyso0f159SBQrgwfGXVi75/view?usp=sharing\par
\par
\b 5) Challenges / Blockers\b0\par
\bullet\tab Managing multiple feature tracks simultaneously while avoiding regressions.\par
\bullet\tab Keeping frontend labels user-friendly while preserving strict backend enums.\par
\bullet\tab Ensuring map coordinate quality across create/view/admin flows.\par
\bullet\tab Preparing reliable SMTP configuration for production deployment.\par
\bullet\tab Time pressure near deployment while maintaining testing quality.\par
\par
\b 6) Plan for Next Week (Deployment Focus)\b0\par
\bullet\tab Finalize any remaining optional feature only if time permits.\par
\bullet\tab Prepare production environment variables for backend and both frontends.\par
\bullet\tab Prepare production MongoDB connection and data integrity checks.\par
\bullet\tab Deploy backend service (Node runtime + reverse proxy/server config).\par
\bullet\tab Deploy citizen/admin frontend production builds.\par
\bullet\tab Configure CORS, API base URLs, uploads/static paths.\par
\bullet\tab Configure and test SMTP in production.\par
\bullet\tab Perform full deployment smoke test (auth, reports, notifications, analytics, email).\par
\bullet\tab Fix deployment-specific bugs and finalize demo readiness.\par
\par
\b 7) Deployment Preparation Checklist\b0\par
\bullet\tab Application runs locally without errors: \b YES\b0\par
\bullet\tab Database is ready: \b YES\b0\par
\bullet\tab Environment variables configured: \b YES\b0\par
\bullet\tab Backend ready for deployment: \b YES\b0\par
\bullet\tab Frontend build ready: \b YES\b0\par
\bullet\tab Basic testing completed: \b YES\b0\par
\par
}
